3 May. Bistritz. —Left Munich at 8:35 P.M., on 1st May, arriving in Vienna early next morning; should have arrived
at 6:46, but the train was an hour late. Buda-Pesth seems a wonderful place, from the glimpse, which I got of it from
the train, and the little I could walk through the streets. I feared to go very far from the station, as we had
arrived late and would start as near the correct time as possible.

I had for dinner, or rather supper, a chicken done up some way with red pepper, which was very good but thirsty.
(Mem., get a recipe for Mina.) I asked the waiter,
and he said it was called "paprika hendl," and that, as it was a national dish, I should be able to get it anywhere
along the Carpathians. I found my smattering of German very useful here; indeed, I don't know how I should be able to
get on without it. Having had some time at my disposal when in London, I had visited the British Museum and made
search among the books and maps in the library regarding Transylvania; it had struck me that some foreknowledge of
the country could hardly fail to have some importance in dealing with a nobleman of that country.

I find that the district he named is in the extreme east of the country, just on the borders of three states,
Transylvania, Moldavia, and Bukovina, in the midst of the Carpathian mountains; one of the wildest and least
known portions of Europe.

The castle is on the very edge of a terrific precipice. A stone falling from the window would fall a thousand feet
without touching anything! It is truly awful; and it is impossible to describe the view from this window.
All I can say is that the mountains seemed to come down to the very door, and that the precipice below seemed to
stretch away into eternity.

When I had written in my diary and had fortunately replaced the book and pen in my pocket, I felt sleepy. The Count's
warning came into my mind, but I took a pleasure in disobeying it. The sense of sleep was upon me, and with it the
obstinacy which sleep brings as outrider. The soft moonlight soothed, and the wide expanse without gave a sense of
freedom which refreshed me. I am all in a sea of wonders. I doubt; I fear; I think strange things, which I dare not
confess to my own soul. God keep me, if only for the sake of those dear to me! It was just before dawn when I woke.
I was sleeping on my chair, and the moonlight streamed in full and heavy through the window, when a sudden sound came
upon me — a breath of wind outside, rushing under the eaves and setting the old shutters banging.